We stopped under the willows by Kempton Park, and lunched. It is a pretty
little spot there: a pleasant grass plateau, running along by the water's edge,
and overhung by willows. We had just commenced the third course - the
bread and jam - when a gentleman in shirt-sleeves and a short pipe came
along, and wanted to know if we knew that we were trespassing. We said we
hadn't given the matter sufficient consideration as yet to enable us to arrive
at a definite conclusion on that point, but that, if he assured us on his word
as a gentleman that we WERE trespassing, we would, without further
hesitation, believe it.
He gave us the required assurance, and we thanked him, but he still hung
about, and seemed to be dissatisfied, so we asked him if there was anything
further that we could do for him; and Harris, who is of a chummy
disposition, offered him a bit of bread and jam.
I fancy he must have belonged to some society sworn to abstain from bread
and jam; for he declined it quite gruffly, as if he were vexed at being
tempted with it, and he added that it was his duty to turn us off.
Harris said that if it was a duty it ought to be done, and asked the man what
was his idea with regard to the best means for accomplishing it. Harris is
what you would call a well-made man of about number one size, and looks
hard and bony, and the man measured him up and down, and said he would
go and consult his master, and then come back and chuck us both into the
river.
Of course, we never saw him any more, and, of course, all he really wanted
was a shilling. There are a certain number of riverside roughs who make
quite an income, during the summer, by slouching about the banks and
blackmailing weakminded noodles in this way. They represent themselves as
sent by the proprietor. The proper course to pursue is to offer your name and
address, and leave the owner, if he really has anything to do with the matter,
to summon you, and prove what damage you have done to his land by sitting
down on a bit of it. But the majority of people are so intensely lazy and
timid, that they prefer to encourage the imposition by giving in to it rather
than put an end to it by the exertion of a little firmness.