Captain Nemo stood up. I followed him. Contrived at the rear of the dining
room, a double door opened, and I entered a room whose dimensions
equaled the one I had just left.
It was a library. Tall, black–rosewood bookcases, inlaid with copperwork,
held on their wide shelves a large number of uniformly bound books. These
furnishings followed the contours of the room, their lower parts leading to
huge couches upholstered in maroon leather and curved for maximum
comfort. Light, movable reading stands, which could be pushed away or
pulled near as desired, allowed books to be positioned on them for easy
study. In the center stood a huge table covered with pamphlets, among
which some newspapers, long out of date, were visible. Electric light
flooded this whole harmonious totality, falling from four frosted half globes
set in the scrollwork of the ceiling. I stared in genuine wonderment at this
room so ingeniously laid out, and I couldn't believe my eyes.
"Captain Nemo," I told my host, who had just stretched out on a couch, "this
is a library that would do credit to more than one continental palace, and I
truly marvel to think it can go with you into the deepest seas."
"Where could one find greater silence or solitude, professor?" Captain Nemo
replied. "Did your study at the museum afford you such a perfect retreat?"
"No, sir, and I might add that it's quite a humble one next to yours. You own
6,000 or 7,000 volumes here … "
"12,000, Professor Aronnax. They're my sole remaining ties with dry land.
But I was done with the shore the day my Nautilus submerged for the first
time under the waters. That day I purchased my last volumes, my last
pamphlets, my last newspapers, and ever since I've chosen to believe that
humanity no longer thinks or writes. In any event, professor, these books are
at your disposal, and you may use them freely."
I thanked Captain Nemo and approached the shelves of this library. Written
in every language, books on science, ethics, and literature were there in
abundance, but I didn't see a single work on economics—they seemed to be
strictly banned on board. One odd detail: all these books were shelved
indiscriminately without regard to the language in which they were written,
and this jumble proved that the Nautilus's captain could read fluently
whatever volumes he chanced to pick up.